and you can start up these in turn on
yeah the back yeah yeah yeah let's go
let's go online first and find some why
because we needed specific audio clips
oh yeah okay I'm done to do that so so
there's a number ways example some video
games do Oh done dude
Oh done dude yeah let's see if iconic
video game sound yeah no we'll just go
through the video games and like no look
like - divyam sounds well but I feel
like we're will be better as if we see
it well I guess yeah well we'll see it
either way so we probably definitely
something from smash definitely need
something from like Rijal with more
Super Mario Bros 2 like made the coin
yeah no it's a coin block sound any
smash sounds dude Tetris Zelda stroke
Hadouken Street Fighter
how do actually it is sick man my
twitter about it just get this [__]
freebie like that's not chill it's too
easy I was I'm just reminds me yeah I'm
just gonna lay something down though no
need time
the walk up walk up that could be a sign
I write a list my phone do it on paper I
break through size papers cool because
then you keep it and take a physical
thing yeah it's pretty work okay so
sounds just not on yet
Mario probably not yeah Rose do mama Mia
right okay I'm trying to think really
what I would do overall because if we're
gonna make a pact we can make some
really cool [__] about like representing
good Westin game labs ideals you know
saying like these games are from
strategy games and you know like start
to start to draw the two mediums and as
a into unison I'm saying like what is
let me look up the West and game lab and
try to find some words you know I think
that we can be really cool if we had
some those like welcome to the Western
game we add to like the intro yeah and
then have your tags are mad mad yeah a
bit I'm gonna put down here miss
yo looks like I'm a drop or something we
were just like you mad bro no no no I
don't play I did you imagine being in
mad having that played and hearing it
like did you make that bro yeah yeah I
did that I don't know that we're like
what is the point of the Wesen game lab
it's supposed to be this collaborative
space where people across disciplines
can work on either games or super broad
visualize very wrong yeah it's pretty
much like this Center for the
intersection between art and technology
I want to find a way to represent game
and sound or sing about that earlier
today to definitely game sounds like we
could do mini or like get like the idea
of a game like Sonic like yeah some
things from Sonic yeah yeah like what
else is there there's like coin ring
like the yam I like the Rings oh yeah
for Sonic right sound we could do like
the spin up sound yeah yeah I think
we're you well we can if we can do this
we're gonna make a list but basically
what you wanna your eyes is like you
just go to youtube and be like conic
game sounds just record the whole thing
in audacity and then just sample all of
them
oh we have to have a Zelda item finding
we push it sample superhot it was like
the VI yeah I know and yeah that's oh
that yeah I definitely do that
okay gaming nostalgia do we just sample
all this [__] alright but first this
one's a playlist of sounds alright this
is the other one this is the playlist
Yoshi mounts and Metal Gear when my
favorite electronic artists burial just
samples Metal Gear Solid like all
[__] day
Oh dope oh that's the second one
oh definitely I'm just gonna let them
play
we're just here yeah that's when I
actually just alright we can just do all
of this I don't the whistle I mean we
don't have peace I mean I never played
Final Fantasy that one's pretty iconic
though yeah
yeah they're more like that it gets less
oh no no then because legends Oh Nobby
hey listen okay listen dude hey classic
do you need your listen hey listen
dude this one I don't know right yeah
he's not jumping to it and I that's
that's very Mon yeah that's a good one
I'm gonna shoot this man should be long
before Super Smash Bros Brawl theme it's
the best one the ball field
why are there there there it's a bit
pre-mixed but this broth it's the best
smash bros theme yeah all right but we
want the ape every way the promise is
well you'll find it harder to sample
things with the more drums they have
well usually unless you're sampling solo
drum
but you can simulate roll Hey look up
them just look up the brawl hi donate
oh yeah we're shaming that over Asia OST
no that's the me yes this is mean theme
gasps hey oh my god do this
one dude
high-pitched singing that again simple
that's a solo
who just one hour of yeah oh yeah oh
dude I want to just do this sis you get
somebody who feels like he like it's
clearly get at memorable with stuff but
also the lair was super unlike like
unknown ones like that's the whole point
it likes crate digging its find
something that no one's heard before
like make it do all these sounds are do
wow so he's the sound yeah yeah
electricity sound
[Music]
[Applause]
but to some degree you do want hey let's
keep going
oh that's on this do actually think that
this one would be pretty good 90s kids
[Music]
this exactly oh wow that's so dope boy
sounded yeah this is not all video games
that tell more vegan stuff see all right
there's diminishing returns but I think
we have like one but so basically all we
have to do is it's annoying cuz you have
to open up audacity and then you can be
like if to disconnect this speakers yeah
I don't have to actually necessarily
just connect the speakers but if to like
change the output if I make the output
right now well okay well that would
explain something but yeah so then this
is okay but from recording standpoint
we're gonna record the stereo mix do
fast laughs yeah is so funny laughs
raises I'm trying to record it it's
recording with the mic no no I'm trying
to record the stereo mix
[Music]
stop changing so fast do you know
that's not this literally on fire right
now this yeah okay
stereo mix quoting it's this other no
cuz if you click monitor right now yeah
that's was a clap but if I played music
right - Wow
well no clapping would be to test like
an actual microphone but I'm trying to
test if the stereo mix like what's
playing like all my computer is making
noise because I mean you can like this
would be it like honestly I think right
now it would be easiest to get around
this it's just in Ableton because then
we don't even have to go to audacity
yeah we would just record using the mic
yeah even though it makes the audio
shittier yeah
now I
you should start making something that
like just like it'd be I mean just like
whatever you want just to like continue
iterating and using this price oft where
is this is all good so it just gets the
ad track and
[Music]
even my loose
yes that's it session right session
allows you to play I was it just like no
it's just like huh no no no wait just
wait it's still like because really does
it actually crash oh yeah you gotta you
gotta you gotta say yield yes a donate
donate that's so funny I don't even have
a way to donate that's what's like even
if you tried why no have you the
trashcan yeah possibly
but also I should check oh yeah let me
first fix the thing such that we have oh
well there's there's a problem this is
not so silly that when i they're
supposed to be
it's so annoying that there's not like a
little button for refresh to refresh the
the audio streams yeah it's so annoying
[Music]
actually wack dude
wait so what did she say exactly though
Oh ashlynn a live stretch 24-hour live
show that's thinking big though she was
like oh I'd love to like do partnership
really support this somehow then she's
like oh yeah you guys could do a theme
song for us I think you need a theme
song then I was like yeah or we'll do
like a like 24 games in 24 hours that's
right 24 songs in 24 hours it's like
yeah yeah using only video game sounds
or something yeah yeah I think that can
be really cool she's like yeah - yeah
that's one of those things it's like oh
yeah that'd be cool but like doesn't
ever happen no I think it took i back in
high school I I didn't help starve I
helped run these things called 24 hour
plays we just put on a play they'll
either like write direct cast and put it
on plays in like 24 hours damn that's
insane so do you think that could
definitely be done well I think maybe 24
is little too ambitious for 24 hours
well not even that I mean that I think a
good be totally done for making a ton of
beat I really just mean like you should
got the administration like just like
getting a beating all organized just
making sure it's like a thing like you
have a Madsen there's a lot of like
freedom
there might be some he is sick what that
I totally forgot about what Todd of
Salem no bleep like kingdom of loathing
no dude oh my god bro
i I got I got this one item that maybe I
want to British people in the game that
I just quit cuz I was like [__] I want
everything dude there's a text page oh
my god bro I used to play this year all
the time with the boys I don't want my
name yes you'd like yeah that's the meat
what did you have I figure wise moves
like super getting I just sold it on
that okay I want to be a wannabe saucer
I don't know I didn't oh it did it I
already know I already already the name
wasn't taken is that I made it already
right they didn't give me a password
all right there's no way that that's
taken but I just took that I'm saying
like what maybe the game is oh it could
be oh no no we're giving ever get oh my
god this is crazy
you're Europe in that game like like
mafia and now so it just like the card
you know like there's a everyone gets
randomly assigned like a role you can
either be like part of the town or part
of it the mafia with the base is level
and like that every night the Mafia's
conspire to like kill one person
yeah no no yeah like that's a game yeah
just with boys yeah how to say what was
that but like it's a computer game
version of it it's like there's way more
roles and stuff and wow that's insane
tell her there's a rank for it just
small YouTube this works and then this
externally and I need
to be the visit cash all the way
what other Wi-Fi they connect to put one
end will give them a severe Amara what
does that mean means man cave it does
yeah I never liked as much easier
oh yeah you can't one-up Club at um like
fun just be little audio check check be
so loud it's me now
you gonna clap dude it's just sound joke
dude wait strain it to say you gotta add
a device
[Music]
yeah it's like front-facing
it should only you see this is like a x4
yeah yeah you got it - you know how to
young master chrome and start recording
sounds cuz it's you feels like well I
guess you don't know how to record an
essay but you can record here because
this is recording the mic so this year
I'll just start recording right now and
then you can go to chrome over here just
our playing sounds
[Music]
that's dope those sounds are sick no you
can make like just include us like
riding weed in the song yeah things I
like I'm loading in all professionally
easily used but then I'll also show you
so you go to global and you were to turn
up the transposition like weird is one
of us talking it's over here
and that's a hat shake that's based yeah
oh that although I'd say base is harder
to get right with all right let's pose
and fine I think over there so how do
you make I want you to change the sit
through through we get sued though noon
and I can't use those sounds to
trademark sounds property is [__]
actually
[Music]
well I guess see I don't know how to
translate this teaching this probably
like yeah you still only made a couple
of tracks like I feel like we might not
want to just work on I mean this this
probably is a worthwhile endeavor to try
to have a goal that you need to work to
like well I mean I don't know what's
optimal because it could be more optimal
I think you're right well what I was
saying is that you just like make songs
irrelevant to too mad not using video
games and just learn the software more
but I guess having an actual wait like
you're trying to use video games and I
like clever way I guess that is more
efficient you should do that but yeah
starting with Beats definitely does make
like because then you do not rely on you
[Music]
yeah
how do I answer just like playing
seconds add things you know the track
you hold that one down yeah but you
could you could you could also like if
you didn't want to do it not at the city
like this one you hold this way yeah
yeah
I don't know this is why I changed
something obviously like you don't like
[Music]
here this is what's called an audio
track and what you can do is you can map
certain things to parameters within like
more complex change elements like
circuits and that allow you to more
easily control over all parameters that
allow you to like play this more like a
live instrument
and so
yeah and so what this and so why it
could be like using a lot of CPU it has
a lot of these ways is because if you're
looking like well I guess probably like
this chain audio so see even these look
at this huge chain of artifacts that all
takes processing I mean it was a pretty
good optimizing except for like you know
more we learn about multi-threading so
basically like you have four cores on
your CPU and it's more its optimal when
you know that you're gonna do like send
it out to all four and like do them in
parallel so this what it does is that it
processes all these are the effects on
one core and the thing is it doesn't
realize that the distribution of
computation is not necessarily equal
across tracks yeah computer science and
music dude all right all right I'm just
gonna turn off the ears and then play
just play so I just turned off some of
these audio effects and it's not C okay
so you know so try to turn this on
because it's in session where you view
the actual clip which you recorded there
is because you see there is one clip
over there so that's that yellow one and
now look at your CPU we were like eating
now we cannot look at those things and
give the thing is this is an 80 of my
whole thing this is like you look at it
able to see be decision in system
monitor and it's like 6% yes you
[Music]
you could use the [__] Mouse [__] we
can do this you go to clip you have loop
length change it to 1 and then you can
do double loop twice
how you like calculate your loss
function of like this is dope like
considering that I made it but obviously
there's a huge bias there and then
starts alright alright alright let me
cut this out everything no no obviously
not I'm [__] well actually I I love
innocent active yeah yeah you love this
out
[Music]
yes just make a new clip there's so many
ways you can get around using the mouse
he'll be way faster at this once you
know
[Music]
okay
[Laughter]
[Music]
by the way change the process change the
outcome
you started with a drum kit every single
time okay and you realize that yeah and
the thing is drums and I can you just
get this crazy
folder maybe go to like I anything
there's gonna be a mini checkers you're
gonna be sampling you're gonna be
loading audio into a sampler right I
[Laughter]
[Music]
think like what you like the audio
processing capabilities
this probably equate to the but the fact
that there's so many I would love to
know like what each of these boards does
yeah pick another one actually haven't
spent a while looking at them I'd be
down there I have not heard sound oh
that's that's yeah there is logic to why
they're distinct I can't not know that's
preposterous I'm pretty big we're
heating up water we need water
Oh what are the coolest part so you get
a VCR you have this thing that spins off
angle so that the audio is only like the
top is
the bandwidth of video is way more than
the audio so when you read it like like
the the tape is being read this maybe
you read like this you only clip the top
for audio physically like off axis so
it's kind of weird
[Music]
oh yeah yes all right what I want to do
is I want to get it's the point where
you have all these different things like
pressing here in the song electronics is
dank Electronics is a sick [__] thing
to do but also if you use a Ross on
Twitch
you will get muted incredibly fast so
you need to make sure that you
manipulated enough so that you don't get
copied yeah this guy
as this moves
the cage is fully today yeah we're not
fully
like that so all the
okay you're yeah it has to be see if you
can determine the type NPN or PNP Rand
the process of building a radio
transmitter summon your rescue that was
the dopest line I've ever read any book
of my life - you can summon your
rescuers I mean yeah you need much more
but I could make an amplifier you can
sort them so you just keep I don't know
how to do it I'm just intrigued by the
fact I think that they probably would
you need a lot of power
yeah not a lot of yeah I really want to
see more integration with it like I mean
the thing is there's a lot of
implications in building I can look up
and synth which is actually a video
it's visual information is way more
dense so obviously you still gotta like
you can definitely tell the difference
we're seeing a 144 screen well this is
not HDMI
[Music]
your music creation
combination
[Laughter]
that's so funny I don't like okay 40
hours on YouTube right now because you
can just take the Twitter you can export
instantly I mean he basically arranged
Stan's just the only project that was no
did you throw something
sorry just think
[Music]
I should add more audio
[Applause]
my favorite axis is the echo the echo is
way more dense of an effect than you
think it is basically like the origins
of all electronic music were in solely
echo because echo was basically just
I would inspect changing that a lot
because that's the real job
you know all these
yeah it's your nothing light
yeah it's so fun
you know did you change the layout dog
oh yeah you made it even sequences
that's cool the Box looks good I don't
really mind about the video I know Joe
mines like I think they'll be actually
impressed with the like that was such it
yeah I agree
it always works out like that you just
like spiralized you like I totally it's
so annoying
we just wide that
just a bio
[Music]
why is that necessarily
so you're gonna gain laughs really think
about this is you're playing smash the
thing is the number of actions that you
can take is way more than any video game
like smash right the number of options
that you have at one time is any
combination of those buttons which while
high is nowhere near the complexity of
this right yeah
so thinking about how you traverse your
your actions face optimally is the you
know utmost concern
[Music]
oh there is one thing that you can use
the mouse for checking this you can't
change it but you can read that because
like you can you give me like hover over
the thing that you're looking for and
[Music]
if you want to know
this button allows you to isolate the
man so there's like a weird sound
so yes look at this city see you got a
filter on for 68 and this is probably
like 200 right here so like you had do
you think you had a converging thing
like this is something up
would you easily always
[Music]
that's so 50 cent equals one
50 Cent's just one step so that's gonna
be very very little like that'll be
detective
[Music]
yeah
I always love to be the
[Music]
very slow but like get away from the
original thinking kind of check it out
[Music]
yeah that's why I say gated reverb just
think a little bit about that like think
about what I already ate
[Music]
track from Beaver
they just go ahead the default
[Music]
this is a purely experimental already
have it these things are working
[Music]
you're gonna like like like try to play
around with discus dude this is a very
and this is like a difficult I would say
a very difficult thing to understand
this someone knew this I know you're
trying to style on people so if you can
understand how gated reverb works
without my explaining it you will be but
basically what's happening is you have
this loud sound that has a trail off but
then once the trail off hits a certain
threshold you drop down so you get that
this kind of extra sound first remove
the reverb of the gate
that's what are your eyes so now you
like now you have a baseline for what
this manipulation is cuz right because
if you have to you can't actually want
to know if you do this okay sometimes I
thought it might give you kiss for
Ableton they'd started developing a lot
more graphical displays with this we can
actually see it move on there like the
EQ for example gets transferred but they
haven't done it for gate yet get on it
Ableton
I don't exactly what's gonna flip oh
it's so gay always [__] me up dude I
rarely use gay because I always like
have trouble like you can see there's no
gain reduction so you know that this is
actually not affecting the signal what
see how see how that lasted longer I'm
gonna hit that it's not of course the
signals being altered we'll see yeah III
don't have way from the correct
terminology I make all these long
that it's waiting so long actually as
long as it gets quiet nothing just snaps
out its once it hits and once it hits
the return it starts the stop playing
right
well according to the release and the
thing is this adsr curve this it's not
really gonna be a decay sustain it's
just gonna hold but this basically
general thing it's gonna start once the
body miss cross the threat which is and
then we'll release which is the sustain
that's a sustained volume it's triggers
the release
I just wanted you there I just wanted
you to learn I always like starting
instruments and no preset so you learn
how the instrument themselves are very
complex I can do you always do what I
did like impulse isn't that cool it's
just a drum thing if you're only in the
loaded yeah you can't pick a preset and
this is a creative restriction to make
you learn because those are gonna come
with audio effects already on them and
if I can't use this No so you can't
choose those you can shoot it you start
with the sine town I frequently start my
songs with this
but look what you have two available
with you look oscillator envelope I'm
sure that'll allow you to edit the
amplitude a TFR cur a plate so I'm
playing four notes right now but at the
same time it's change up to down style
go to the very end this keeps you can't
[Music]
but now I want you to look into operator
cuz he's the very look at what you're
editing on here
I knew what you're watching this but not
using to see what you're headed
[Music]
that's such a good base because it
scientific it's a salt add an EQ sound
sound good how do i string together
sounds to make sound good
just keep going you know you don't even
know what this insurance came we get all
these submenus
[Music]
you're saying you wouldn't really be
able to tell like
[Music]
like you know that I'll be fired up yeah
no I don't disagree
[Music]
you're editing
collide it's in this so you have look at
the way you use this visually yeah for
four oscillators right and then on this
you have four menus it's in the pitch
menu you have this glide just make it
super hide and try to glide you this so
that's how you can make surprises and
you can do that with sound because look
if you go here one of these a sound
and then if you got a filter on it like
this and then yeah the filter envelope
takes super long to
[Music]
I'm righteous [__] but let's see
everyone has this much weed in a J after
the fact
it's just preposterous I was like is
really high
kind of its first book of Suzuki dude
[Music]
well I can change the scale right like
Oh bad sick
[Music]
I'm getting it
right now
[Music]
I change sounds different there's
nowhere to scavenge no no no we can
scavenge bit to get to meet them we
Robin
[Music]
if your time signature is for
really
[Music]
sit down because I don't want to hear
the pension and you can't edit the drop
that job is just imagine
[Music]
get his visa category sets in
you get based on category so you can
learn attention you don't actually have
to select out like Palin is just the
same thing every time
[Music]
I just read the top names of it all of
these things and think about the name
tension what do you think of when you
think of attention like not as a musical
abstract it's literally the attention of
objects but
[Music]
like your award function is not being
able to predict what's gonna happen next
then like you know generally if you like
if you like started with this and you
sleep right if I did this but here you
don't necessarily know what those are
gonna do so if you just I say just
played one note over and over again
[Music]
with reverb with rain delay
I just added to it
and I manage it make a small space
so I'm sending part of the tension
[Music]
like there's a dog there you understand
and always those primary ones that are
[Music]
the way when you load it up these are
the eight that were shown those are
probably me like need to change it the
most and then these do subsequent
[Music]
sometimes work
that's fine that's fine
come on little class look like this yeah
well walk and talk wait I don't think
it's starting up I'm worried about
tonight
make sure it's place uh-huh okay to be
man
yeah wait what is it yeah that's able to
it'll just get a little dimmer yeah you
don't need that power block no I have a
smaller power law yeah way better
I'm in the building
dope I still don't get the ring good
I'm Thurston bro
I said over there maybe it's just an
inaccuracy and this is really more
concerned about it won't rain I missed
opportunity